A compiler is a program that translates a programming language's source code into machine language and it performs various operations such as parsing, preprocessing, lexical analysis, and semantic analysis. The 3 phases of a compiler are Lexical Analysis, Syntax Analysis and Semantic Analysis. Lexical Analysis is the process of converting a sequence of characters into a sequence of lexical tokens which are Strings with an assigned and identified meaning. Lexical Analysis is the first of a compiler. The second phase of a compiler is the syntax analysis. Syntax analysis is the process of analyzing a string of symbols either in natural language, computer language or data structures conforming to the rules of a formal grammar. The parser receives the source code in the form of tokens from the lexical analyzer and performs syntax analysis, which create a tree-like intermediate representation that depicts the grammatical structure of the token stream. The are two main ways to parse which is Top-down parsing and Bottom-up parsing. Top-down parsing starts from the root of tree and builds down to the leaves and the tokens are processed from left to right. Bottom-up parsing starts from the leaves and builds the tree up to the root and tokens are processed from left to right. The third phase of the compiler is Semantic Analysis which is the process of drawing meaning from text. It allows computers to understand interpret sentences, paragraphs, or whole documents by analyzing their grammatical structure, and identifying relationships between individual words in a particular context. 
